everyone loves supab base it is an
incredible open-source platform that
definitely seems to be the most popular
database for AI agents right now it's
postgress sequel under the hood so not
only can you use it to manage the
conversation history and state for your
agents but you can also use the PG
Vector extension to literally turn it
into a vector database for rag so it's
just the perfect platform for AI agents
not to mention all the other awesome
features as well like authentication and
object storage that you get right out of
the box and so to me it definitely seems
like no matter what you are building
with AI there is a place for super base
because super base is so incredibly
useful and Powerful it was no surprise
to me that many of you asked me to
include it in the local AI package that
I've been working on and that I've been
sharing some on my channel and luckily
since superbase is entirely open source
and they have instructions for
self-hosting it with Docker it's
actually pretty easy for us to bring it
into the fold of our local AI services
and that's exact actly what I'm going to
show you how to do in this video now
super base was a little bit trickier
than the other platforms to get
Incorporated but that's why I'm going to
walk you through it step by step right
now so you can get this revamped local
AI package up and running super quickly
and the best part is if you've used
super base not locally before everything
is going to look very familiar to you
I'll even show you how to build a rag AI
agent in NN that's running 100% local
using our superbase instance plus we'll
use a local file trigger instead of
Google Drive like I've done with other
videos on my channel so that it actually
is entirely local I know that's a big
thing that a lot of you ask for in other
videos on my Channel with this package
also I just want to say that this local
AI package revamp that I'm doing now is
just the beginning I really want to turn
this into the golden standard for local
Ai and also start to incorporate it into
other projects than a building like
archon so more on that later you know
I'm always the guy with big ideas and so
with that let's dive into setting up
superbase locally so this is the local
AI package completely revamped now with
superbase and it has its own dedicated
GitHub repository now so before I just
had it with a bunch of other things in
my AI agents masterclass GitHub repo but
now since I'm revamping it and doing a
lot more with it I have a dedicated
place for it so I'm going to have that
in a link in the description of this
video check it out right here this is
the Remy that you'll see at the homepage
of the GitHub repo and this local AI
package was originally made by the na
and team let me zoom in a little bit
here so you can see this um so I took
what they built and they curated
together and I built on top of it in
previous videos on my channel to add
things into the package so it started
out with just n8n olama quadrant and
postgress those were the four services
in the local AI package and then I added
in flow wise for another low code AI
agent Builder open web UI so we can have
a chat gbt like interface and now I'm
adding in super base which I'm replacing
postgress entirely since super base is
post under the hood and then quadrant is
also kind of similar because you can use
it as a vector store just like you can
use superbase but I'm keeping quadrant
in there I kind of have a note on this
here just because it's faster than
superbase so for some use cases you
might actually want quadrant but in
general I love using super base just
because I can use it as a SQL database
and as a vector store for rag as well so
this is everything that is now in the
local AI package I'm going to show you
how to get it all set up right now now
all right as I walk you through this
guide step by step for installing the
revamped local AI package I'm going to
be sure to hit on some points that I
missed in other videos on my channel for
this package things like how do you
actually restart and update your local
AI stack or how do you exclude things
like ama if you're already running it on
your computer so you don't want it
running in Docker as well so even if
you've seen other guides on my channel
for this local AI starter kit this is
still going to be really helpful for you
and then if you haven't I'm still going
to be very comprehensive going through
this step by step so back to the readme
here which again I'll have Linked In the
description of this video it's just the
homepage of the GitHub repository scroll
down till you get to the prerequisite
section cuz I want to focus on this
first there are a few things that you
have to have installed before you can go
on to the rest of the installation
instructions the first thing is you'll
need python here to run a script that
does a lot of the superbase setup that
I'll show you in a little bit here
you'll also want git or GitHub desktop
to obviously clone this repository I'd
recommend GitHub desktop if it's on your
personal machine not on some computer in
the cloud if you're hosting local AI
there and then also Docker or Docker
desktop because all of these local AI
Services run as Docker containers and
I'd recommend Docker desktop again just
like with Git if you're running this on
your personal computer and so once you
have all these prerequisites installed
just using these links right here you're
good to move on to the rest of the
installation instructions which I'll
walk you through step by step right now
so the first thing you're going to want
to do is clone this GitHub repository so
you just take this First Command right
here open up a terminal and go ahead and
run it and obviously I already have this
repo cloned but if you don't then it's
going to pull all that from GitHub
you'll get a very different output right
here running the command and then you go
ahead and change your directory into
local AI package so now my current
directory in my terminal is exactly what
I have open up here in my IDE and it's a
pretty simple repository overall because
it's not like we have to have the code
for all the different Services bundled
into this repository we just have to
reference the docker containers in our
primary file right here which is our
Docker compose do yaml so this file is
responsible for defining all of the
different Docker containers that we want
to pull together and create for our
local AI package and so everything that
you saw in the read me right here we
have defined in the docker compos file
so we've got n8n olama flow wise open
web UI all these are defined as the
individual containers like this is the
open web UI blocked say that we want
that as one of the services within our
stack and these are the conf
configuration items for it like the port
that we're hosting it on and the name of
our container that we're going to be
using in our Docker compos Network and
the one thing that is not included in
here is superbase I'm going to touch on
that in a little bit here because we
actually need to clone the superbase
repository separately and use a separate
Docker compos file combined with this
one and the primary reason is actually
because superbase runs many different
containers together when you host it
locally and so it it's kind of a mess if
I just dump it all in this ER compos
file so more on that later but let's
actually get to the next part of the
setup and then we'll dive into some of
the intricacies of getting superbase
specifically installed into this package
so yeah after you have everything cloned
and you changeed your directory now it's
time within an IDE to make your EnV file
and to set your environment variables
and it's pretty simple overall there's
going to be a lot of environment
variables that you see in the env.
example file open that up right here
there is a ton here and this mostly
comes from superbase because there are
so many different things in superbase
that you can configure it looks pretty
overwhelming but luckily to get just the
foundation of superbase set up you can
leave most of these environment
variables as their default values there
are only a few that you actually have to
care about that I have pointed out in
the readme here so that is what we're
going to set up right now if you want to
do more complicated things in superbase
like set up their email authentication
there are more environment variables and
more setup for that but you don't don't
need that for most of the AI use cases
you'll be building with local AI so we
not cover that right now cuz I want to
keep that concise but just know that
there are a lot of other things um if
you want to set up other stuff in super
base and they have a guide for that as
well so I'll have this Linked In the
description of the video as well because
superbase put out a very comprehensive
guide for self-hosting with Docker and
this is actually the resource I used to
learn how to incorporate superbase in
the local AI package and so a lot of the
stuff that'll show you how to do in a
little bit is actually going to be using
this so use this as a guide both in this
video and also more of the advanced
stuff at the bottom if you want to learn
other things like dashboard
authentication or actually setting up
more advanced things like your um yeah
email server if you want to configure an
email server within local superbase not
the stuff I'm going to cover right here
so anyway all we're going to do right
here I'm going to actually delete this
Dov file and start from scratch I'm
going to make a brand newv file walk
through setting up all of the config
ation with you right now and we're going
to do it pretty quickly so don't worry
I'll walk you through it step by step
it's not actually that complicated here
so I'm going to copy everything from.
example and then paste it into this newv
file that I just created here and so the
first thing at the top is our n8n
credentials and these we can actually
set to whatever we want so we Define the
secret here and this can just be a
random alpha numeric string doesn't
really matter what you set here I don't
care either what I show you right here
just because this is running enti enely
locally on my computer and I'm going to
reset mymv after I record this video
anyway so that's everything for the n8n
you just Define your own JWT secret and
encryption key and then the rest of what
we want to set up is for superbase
specifically and so the first thing that
we need is our postgress password this
is going to be the password for our
database and again just like with n8n
you define this yourself so I'm just
going to do something kind of silly here
I'm just going to say test password so
again I'll change this later and then we
want to set our dashb Bo login as well
so just like when you use a hosted
version of super base you can log in to
see all your tables and your users and
your SQL editor and all that you have
the exact same setup with local
superbase and I'll show that later as
well you have your own locally hosted
dashboard as well and so this is the
login for that so you can set the
username to whatever you want the
password the same as well just say test
dashboard password I don't really care
how secure it is right now and then
these two values you can leave as the
default and then we'll get to these
three in a second here the last thing
that I'll show you how to set before we
go back to the superbase documentation
is the Pooler tenant ID and so this is
for the transaction Pooler connections
to your superbase database and so for
this doesn't really matter what you set
it to just set it to some number right
here that will be your tenant ID that
you'll use again for when you are
connecting to superbase with the
transaction Pooler method and so that is
everything besides the JWT secret so
let's actually go back back to the guide
right here for self-hosting with Docker
because they have a really nice little
tool here that actually helps us get set
up with these last three environment
variables we need to configure so if you
scroll down a little bit above the
halfway point for the documentation
you'll see right here it actually
generates a JWT secret for you so if I
refresh the page watch this we have y1
RM if I refresh the page and then come
back look at this it changed so we have
a brand new JWT secret every time we
refresh this page so we can just use
this for our secret it's really
convenient that we don't even have to
bother generating it ourself we just
paste this in right here and that is our
JWT secret and then for the anonymous
key and service roll key we can go back
to the documentation and it can generate
those for us so you just click on
Anonymous key and then you click on
generate JWT and then boom we can just
copy this and bring it into our
environment variable right here so I'll
just go ahead and replace what I have
right here nice and easy so these are
the keys that are usually generated for
you when you have the remote superbase
instance but now since we're running it
locally we have to actually Define these
ourselves that's what we're doing right
now and then for the service roll key
we'll just click on this dropdown switch
it to service key and then click on
generate JWT again so I'll go ahead and
copy that and then replace that service
roll key just like I did the anonymous
key and then look at that boom we now
have everything configured for our
environment variables it was actually
pretty easy overall and so now we can
finally go on to getting everything
started with the Docker compos stack now
to spin up our local AI stack there are
a few different commands that we see
here depending on your architecture so
if you have an Nvidia GPU like me and
you want to use that for your llms in
the AMA container you'll use this
Command right here and then if you have
an AMD GPU on Linux you can use this and
then for Mac users you unfortunately
can't use a graphics card within a
Docker container it's just a limitation
of mac and so you can either just run
entirely on the CPU which you can still
use smaller lm's like less than 8
billion parameters with just a CPU or
you cannot run olama at all so if you do
D- profile none it's actually just going
to not run the olama container at all so
if you have Ama running outside just on
your computer you can still reference
that from within your n8n container or
your superbase container whatever it
might be and then there's some
additional instructions for uh using Mac
as well so that's everything depending
on your architecture also if you just
aren't on Mac but don't have a GPU you
can run on the CPU as well and so all of
these commands together each of them are
using this start services dopy and this
is a script that I made for you to make
it super easy to get everything up and
running and the reason it's a little bit
more complicated now is because
superbase is not just a single container
let me show you what I mean it's it's
kind of interesting so if you go into
the superbase GitHub repository which
you'll see in a bit why I actually have
this in Source control right now and
then you go into the docker folder and
go into the docker compose file
superbase actually has its entire own
stack just like I have for my Docker
compose file for the local AI package
and the reason they have that is because
superbase is actually made up of many
different containers combined together
like you have the studio which is the
interface you're used to seeing when you
have a superbase running remotely you've
got Kong you've got the authentication
container you have the res container
real time all the different services
that you have like the the object
storage in super base are running as
individual containers combined together
and so I can't really just copy this
entire thing and then go into my own
Docker compose and just dump it all in
here I mean that's going to be a total
mess and I don't want to have to
manually update the container versions
when superbase updates things so I want
to actually be able to reference their
Docker compos and their GitHub repo and
combine that with my own and that is
exactly what this python script does for
you so it'll actually clone the
superbase repository or pull it to
update it if you've already run the
script before and then it'll combine the
superbase docker compose file with our
own for the local AI package to bring
everything together and this is a little
bit more technical um so don't worry if
you don't understand this part but it's
really important that we also run it on
the same Docker Network so that way our
n8n instance or whatever other container
we have can very easily connect to our
superbase containers as well and so this
it right here is the um what I pass into
the command to make it all run in the
same Docker compos Network so that's
super important and then another thing
that the script does for you is if you
ever want to restart everything like
maybe you want to shut down your stack
for a bit and then turn it on later or
you want to update one of your
environment variables and have that
actually take effect you can just run
the script again it is that easy and
it'll restart everything for you and
then another thing is if you want to to
upgrade your containers like maybe
there's an update to n8n or an update to
superbase whatever it might be you can
just follow these commands in the readme
right here and that will take care of
everything you just spin down everything
with this First Command pull the latest
updates to all of the containers in both
Stacks with this command and then you
just run the start services. with your
profile like CPU or GPU Nvidia and it'll
rerun everything it is that easy to
restart things to take new effects with
environment variables and to update your
container as well so I hope that makes a
lot of sense and so right now I'm just
going to go ahead since I have an Nvidia
GPU I'm going to take that First Command
at the top just copy that go over to my
terminal and I'm going to go ahead and
run this and so for me since I've
already run this before it's just going
to pull the latest changes from the
super based repository it'll actually
pull everything for the first time if
you haven't run this before and then
it's going to tear down all of the
existing containers that are running and
then reboot them them all back up and
that is how I do a full restart here and
also really important to note if you
already have workflows in an and ORF
flow wise or if you have data in your
super base tables tearing down the
containers will not get rid of that so
you don't have to worry about losing
anything when you run this script to
restart your containers everything will
persist so do not worry about that I
know that's a big question that I had
when I was first covering the local AI
package on my channel here and so right
now it is yeah it's tore down everything
and now it's restarting all the super
base stuff and so it takes a little bit
here um actually it's basically already
almost done you do get a warning right
here where it says it found orphan
containers for everything that was just
started with superbase you can ignore
this I don't know exactly how to fix
this um if you know just let me know and
I'd love to take care of that but anyway
yeah everything is up and running now so
I can actually go to my Docker desktop
here let me show this um by the way
these are the settings that you want for
your Docker desktop there's a couple of
things like exposing the Damon um
without TLS that you want to make sure
that you have checked if you're using
dock or desktop with Windows um just a
little tip there a little aside there's
a troubleshooting section in the readme
as well that I would definitely check
out if you're having any problems but
yeah I'll close out of the settings here
I'll go to my local AI package right
here running in Docker desktop and look
at this we have all these different
Services running here uh which is super
neat there's so much that goes into this
package now you can literally like go
into a llama I can look at the logs for
it I can go into the exec Tab and I can
actually enter in a command like I I can
say AMA pull and I can look or AMA list
that's the wrong command there and I can
see the models that I have available to
me in ama and I could even say AMA run
and then I could copy the name of the
llm that I have pulled I'll show in a
second how I defined this I'll copy this
and paste it and then boom I'm now
interacting with quen 2.5 instruct and
since I'm using the Nvidia GPU profile
it is using my Nvidia GPU uh to run quen
2.5 right here so look at that super
neat so you can interact with all these
containers and see the logs as you are
running things in your local AI package
and by the way let me actually show this
really quick here in the docker compose
file this Command right here defines the
llms and embedding models that are
pulled for AMA by default and then the
very last thing that I want to hit on
before we create an agent together is I
have a troubleshooting section in the
read me right here with some common
problems that I've seen with running
superbas locally and some things that
I've actually run into myself so so
hopefully if you run into any issue
it'll be listed here and there's a
resource for a lot of these you'll be
able to get through everything that I
ran into if you did yourself that's kind
of the goal of this troubleshooting
section here so that is everything for
getting the local AI package set up you
now have everything up and running so
like you can literally go to local
hostport 6333 SL dashboard and then boom
there's quadrant I know we're not using
that in this video right now but I'm
just showing like everything is
available to you you can go to let's see
3000 And1 and then boom there is your
flow wise and you can go to
8,000 and then you have your super base
and if you go into it for the first time
it'll ask you to input your username and
password which remember you set as the
dashboard username and password in the
EnV file and this should look very
familiar to you everything that you're
used to seeing when you go to the remote
superbase instance in your browser and
then we also have n8n so you're going to
go to local hostport
5678 and then it'll have you create a
local NN account it's not actually a
cloud one so it is running locally it'll
have you create an account and then
you'll have this overview right here
where you'll have the local rag AI agent
as that one workflow that is imported
automatically but we're going to
actually create another one here so I'm
going to create the superbas rag AI
agent I'll have this automatically
import into your n8n instance as well so
this will immediately be available to
you when you go into n8n the only thing
that you actually have to set up
yourself is your credentials and so I'm
going to walk through that right now and
just briefly describe how this agent
works exactly and so first of all it's
just a basic AI agent using the agent
node in n8n where we have our olama chat
model connected we have superbase for
chat memory just using the postgress
node and then we have superbase for our
Vector retrieval so that we have rag
through superbase now instead of
quadrant and to get all the credentials
set up I'll start with AMA here you'll
go to credentials and the drop down here
create new credential and then the base
URL is going to be o Lama instead of
Local Host so it'll be HTTP olama and
then the port is
11434 and then when you click save it'll
automatically test your connection and
if the containers are set up and all
running properly it'll say connection
tested successfully I'm going to switch
back to my other credentials here and
then it'll load all of the models that
you had pulled with AMA when it was
first imported so we got our embedding
model and then Quin 2.5 7B instruct as
well and then for superbase here our
connection through postgress I'll create
new credentials the host is actually
going to be DB and the reason it's like
that I'll actually go back over to my
IDE here and then go to the docker
compose file for superbase look at this
the superbase the primary database
container in the stack is just called DB
and since these containers like n8n and
superbase are all in the same Docker
Network we can connect to it by just
referencing the name of the container as
the actual host and so then our database
is going to be postgress and then the
user name and password is going to be
whatever you have set up in your
environment variables and then keep the
port the same all that is good to go I'm
just going to close out of this but if I
actually go and edit my other
credentials that I have right here and
you go ahead and click on I'll just
click on retry you can see just like
with AMA connection tested successfully
so that is everything with AMA and then
superbase and then when you connect
connect let me just show this there's a
slightly different setup when you
connect with the superbase vector store
versus actually connecting with the
postgress node The Host this took a
little bit of time for me to figure out
so I hope that I save you a headache
with this you can't actually say DB
right here for some reason this doesn't
work if you say DB for the host name
here you have to actually say host.
doer. internal so essentially that's
telling NN to go outside to my machine
my local PC and then go back into Port
8000 which is mapped onto the super base
container so then you just have your
service roll secret which you have set
in EnV and that is it that is all the
credentials that you have to set up you
can reuse those credentials for the rest
of this workflow as well this is the
workflow that actually brings files that
we put in a local folder into our local
superbase Vector store so let me really
quickly show you my rag pipeline right
here how I get local files into my local
superbase and then we'll test out the
rag agent here just a really nice and
simple demo you could literally just do
this kind of rag setup within open web
UI with the rag functionality but I just
want to keep things simple here you
could definitely take this workflow and
extend it to your heart's content in n8n
again this is going to be automatically
imported into your n8n instance when you
pull the repo and run everything like I
showed you how to do earlier and so at
the start of our pipeline right here as
promised it it is a local file trigger
and so it's watching for files that are
added and changed in this folder
specifically and the reason I know to
use slata shared is if I go to the
docker compos stack and look at the n8n
service specifically the shared folder
which is this guide right here on the
left hand side is mapped to /data Shared
in my n8n container and so when I add a
file in here like test. text this file
is now also in my container right here
in SL dat shared and then SL test. text
and so I'm using this folder so that I
can dump things on my personal computer
and have it actually go in my n and end
container as well and Trigger this right
here so you also want these two options
ticked by the way otherwise this won't
work but I'll go ahead and click on test
step and then I can actually go back
into here and let me go back to my test
file I'll paste in some content right
here that I just want to have in my
Vector database so super simple test
information right here click on Save and
then boom look at that we now triggered
with a change event and then the path
which we're going to be using as our
file ID essentially in the vector
database is set right here as well so
then I can go on to the next node right
here which is basically just determining
if it is an add or change event because
if it is a change event like it is in
this case we want to clean the vector
database of any vectors for this file
specifically so using this metadata
filter again using the path as a file ID
we're just cleaning the vector database
of anything with this file so that we
have a blank slate to make sure what we
are inserting is really everything for
the updated file we don't want any old
vectors hanging around for a previous
version of the file and then we pull the
file within our NN workflow so now this
node right here gives us this data
output which is the contents of the file
actually really is the file itself and
then in the next node we extract the
text from the file and so at this point
we put a file on our local computer it
went onto our n end container into our
workflow and now we have the text from
it it is nice and simple and then the
next thing that we want to do within our
superbase node before we actually run
this we need to set things up in our
database here so if you click on the
docs tab right here it'll bring you to
this page scroll down a little bit and
then click on a quick start for setting
up your vector store you want to copy
all of this SQL right here because this
is how we are going to set up our Vector
database here and so I'm going to go to
SQL editor and then I'm going to click
on the plus icon create new snippet and
then paste this in boom there we go and
now we can run this right away except
there's one change we have to do the
size of our vectors is actually 768
because we're using the nomic embed text
model from AMA that's just the vector
size specifically so we'll change it to
that this you can set to whatever
embedding model you're using what the
vector size is and then you can go ahead
and just run this by clicking on run in
the bottom right and fail for me cuz I
already have executed this but for you
it'll work and then we'll have this
documents table let me scroll down to
that right um where is the documents
table right here boom there we go so
it's an empty documents table right now
but what we can actually do is we can
run this to insert our vectors and
usually I get an error like this it's
kind of weird there's not actually a
problem with my workflow all I have to
do is just save and then refresh so I'll
refresh n8n and then I'll just run test
step right from the superbase vector
store I'll make a change to my file just
to trigger things again and then uh it
executes and boom there we go so it's a
little glitch with n8n where when you
going through it step by step it fails
at this node for some reason um but
anyway I refreshed and ran it right from
there and now if I refresh in superbase
we have our record here so my to-do list
is and then look at that it looks really
really nice and we got the file ID for
the metadata everything is looking good
so now what we can do is go into our
chat and it's kind of a weird file so I
have to be explicit here telling it to
use rag but I can just say uh look at my
um test file and tell me what my to-do
list is so now I'm chatting with quen
2.57 me instruct running locally using
my GPU and you can see here that it
invoked the superbase vector store tool
retrieved my to-do list we can even see
the results of that right here from what
it pulled from the vector store and look
at that based on your test file your
to-do list is watch a movie code the
next big SASS and learn how to tie my
shoes all right it is working perfectly
again just a very basic demo example
here but we have everything including
superbase running entirely locally and
you could go and deploy this to the
cloud keep it on your machine do
anything that you want with this extend
it with more services the world is your
oyster with this local AI package so
there you have it we now have super base
running entirely locally in our local AI
package which really is starting to sh
shape up to be the perfect tool for you
to run all your AI locally and build any
AI agent that you could dream of and I
have a lot of plans like I already
mentioned to keep expanding this local
AI package but also I want to hear from
you so let me know in the comments what
other tools or services or Frameworks
you think I should include because I
really want to build this into the
golden standard for local AI but I need
your help to make sure I'm including
everything that I should and really this
is a community-driven project as well so
if you appreciated this content you're
looking forward to more things local AI
I would really appreciate a like and a
subscribe and with that I will see you
in the next video